[Music]
good morning to you
welcome to breakfast with charlie state
and louise minchin our headlines today
tiger woods undergoes surgery after a
car crash in los angeles
he suffered multiple leg injuries and
had to be freed from the wreckage
summer schools and extra tuition to help
pupils in england catch up with lessons
lost
to covid thousands of women are being
offered diy
home smear tests to check for early
warnings of cervical cancer
it is advantage chelsea in the champions
league a brilliant overhead kick
from olivier giroud gets them a crucial
win over atletico madrid
good morning there's been some heavy
overnight rain across parts of the north
and west of the uk
more to come through the course of today
but the winds easing a little bit
drier and brighter in the southeast and
here we could see temperatures a size 15
16 possibly even 17 degrees
i'll have more later in the programme
[Music]
good morning it's wednesday february the
24th our top story tiger woods has been
undergoing surgery after suffering
multiple leg
injuries in a car crash in los angeles
he had to be freed from the wreckage by
firefighters and paramedics but he was
said to be alive and conscious
at the scene our west coast
correspondent sophie long has this
report from los angeles
is anyone trapped in the vehicle or is
vehicle on fire no
the emergency call came just after seven
on tuesday morning
the gulf legends suv had been traveling
at speed before it flipped
and rolled multiple times sustaining
extensive damage
no skid marks no breaking so apparently
the first contact was with the center
median
and from there then cross into the
opposing lane of traffic
hit the curb hit a tree and there was
several
rollovers during that process the
sporting icon was pulled from the
wreckage
conscious and authorities say lucky to
be alive
i made contact with him and i ensured
that he was
able to speak to me at that time he
seemed that as though he was still calm
and lucid
news of the accident sent shockwaves
through the world of sport
and beyond i'm sick to my stomach uh
you know it hurts to see one of your
i mean now my closest friends um
you know get in an accident and man i
just hope he's all right
tiger woods has inspired generations
i am tiger woods his story one of the
most compelling in the history of
professional golf
a cultural icon who has overcome huge
challenges
in his professional and personal life
he reached the peak of his comeback just
two years ago when he triumphed at
augusta
a fifth masters victory that
reverberated way beyond sport
his injuries while serious are now not
thought to be life-threatening
they could be career threatening though
for the legendary golfer who was already
recuperating from his fifth back surgery
recovery now could be the greatest
challenge he's ever
faced sophie long bbc news los angeles
well let's get more now from our north
america correspondent david willis who's
in los angeles
uh david has any more information
emerged about just what happened
and the latest on his condition
well charlie let me bring you bang up to
date because in the last few minutes
uh via his twitter feed tiger woods
has released a statement it includes
words from
the doctor who's been treating him in
los angeles
overnight and it says that he is
currently
awake and recovering and thanks people
for their support
he says that a long this is a doctor now
a long surgical procedure
on tiger woods lower right leg and
ankle was undertaken he suffered
significant orthopedic injuries to his
right lower extremity that were treated
during emergency surgery and the
statement from the doctor goes on to say
that a rod
was inserted into the tibia and
additional injuries to the foot and
ankle was stabilized with a combination
of screws and pins um what this makes
clear i think
is that these were serious injuries
which he sustained
after his car or the suv in which he was
traveling
basically go left the road and uh hit
the curb hit a tree
and then rolled over several times it
actually came to rest
several hundred feet from the road and
tiger woods had to be cut from the
wreckage by a
fireman he was pulled out through the
shattered windscreen and earlier today
the los angeles times reported that he'd
suffered a
shattered ankle and two leg fractures
one of them a compound fracture all of
which i suppose
raises the question what does this mean
for his
golfing career this is a man who's
undergone a lot of surgery in the past
of course
four knee surgeries five back surgeries
and he's bounced back on every occasion
after the most
recent one of the most recent surgeries
in 2017 he then
bounced back to win the masters two
years later charlie
david thank you very much
secondary schools in england are set to
receive funding to run
summer schools it's part of the
government's plans to help children
catch up after months of learning from
home
the prime minister has pledged an extra
400 million pounds for extra lessons and
tutoring schemes but teaching unions
awarding more investment
is needed our education correspondent
dan johnson has more
when children get back into class
teachers have the delicate task of
working out who's missed what
and where extra support is needed many
are wary of the pressure pupils will be
under
and the risk some could be discouraged
by talk of catching up
lost learning and being left behind but
there's widespread recognition that
homeschooling could never fully replace
classroom teaching
so now there's more money to help get
everyone back on track
and make sure every child can reach
their potential
the department for education has
announced another 400 million pounds
across england meaning 1.7 billion has
been allocated
since the start of the pandemic there's
200 million pounds
for secondary schools to deliver
face-to-face summer school activities
potentially focused on children moving
up from primary school this year
and 18 million pounds will support
language development
for the youngest children our decimal
number let's go with 0.7 because
schools have flexibility in how they
spend some of the rest
but the majority of it will go on
one-to-one and small group tuition
targeted at the children who need it
most some teaching unions
say much more is required and it's
teachers who know best what their pupils
need
exactly how this help is delivered
whether it reaches the right children
will be the key to determining the
lasting impact on the lives
of those who've come through the most
difficult school year
dan johnson bbc news
more than 30 000 women in england are
being offered do it at home
smear tests as part of a trial by the
nhs
experts hope that the test could be a
way to encourage more women to get
screened for early warns of
warnings of cervical cancer our health
correspondent sophie hutchinson reports
cervical cancer affects just over 3 000
women a year in the uk
smear tests save lives by spotting the
early signs
and detecting the human pampiloma virus
the biggest cause of the disease
but many women don't get tested grace
says she missed her smear because she
was just too busy
and only went after a friend begged her
to go
she was shocked to discover she had
severe abnormal
cell changes it was quite scary
especially because i
i didn't really know that much about it
[Music]
but i'm just so thankful that i went
when i did it could have been different
if i'd left it
you know even six months to help women
get tested
the nhs in england is now trialling home
smear kits
they'll be offered to more than 31 000
women
aged 25 to 64 who are 15 months overdue
for a check
the trial is taking place in north
london which has one of the lowest
uptakes of cervical screening but the
pandemic has
significantly worsened the situation
across the country
with six hundred thousand smear tests
failing to go ahead
in april and may last year an increase
of more than a third
on the annual backlog it is concerning
because
cervical screening is the best
protection against developing cervical
cancers
but studies such as this one is
fantastic as well because it is offering
even though it's just in london it is
offering those people who are overdue
and
a sort of a different easier way
potentially to access screening right
now
campaigners say the home smear kits
should be rolled out
across the country as quickly as
possible if the trial is found to be
safe
so that all women at risk of cervical
cancer can be
protected sophie hutchinson bbc news
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app
and get the full story with bbc dot co
dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news